So in this video we're going to see how to set up FTB to connect to our Web Hosting to transfer and
update files.
There are lots of different FTB programs and they all work much the same way.
And I'm going to show you a couple of different options but the one I'd recommend is free and available
for all platforms and it's called File Zila.
So if you just go to your browser and Google for files Zilah then you'll find the main web site here
and fells ilah is just a program that you can install on your computer to allow you to connect to your
webspace via FTB.
So we want the files Zyla client so click on that one.
If you're on Mac OS as I am then download that one.
If you're on Windows or Linux then it will hopefully give you the appropriate client to download.
If not then click on the windows or linux icons down there.
OK.
If you're on a Mac you'll get an option to download on the App Store.
But we don't need to do that.
You can if you like but I'm going to go for the straightforward download option.
Ok then find the file that you've downloaded.
Double click on it.
Same process in Windows and Mac and agree to the terms and conditions.
And this will then begin the installation process.
It's pretty quick on a Mac.
I just need to double click again on file Zyla there and open windows.
You'll probably get presented with the installer straight away.
Then we'll click continue.
You probably don't want the Yahoo search off of them so I'd recommend clicking skip unless you want
that and again for opera and then it will run through the installation process.
Although click Finish and files it opens up for us.
Click OK and this is the file Zella interface which is very similar to other FTB programs.
Not particularly user friendly perhaps but we'll get to grips with it and in a couple of minutes you'll
wonder how you ever lived without it.
So you'll see on the left hand side we have our folder structure on my computer here so you need to
find your files that you've been working with.
Minor on the desktop and there we go.
So there's our index this GMO file and at JPL you don't need to worry about these extra files here they're
just default Mac OS files which are going to completely ignore.
All right so now comes the time to connect to our site via FTB.
I'm going to use the button on the top left there and create a new site.
So we need the settings for our website to connect to FTB which we get over in the control panel.
And they're down here on the right hand side.
So first off your notice here is currently locked.
This is a security feature of either Web Hosting to prevent other people accessing your files.
You can either unlock FCP by time or by a specific IP address.
If you know that your IP address doesn't change.
So if you know you're on a fixed IP address then click unlock by IP.
If you don't know that then it's probably best to unlock it by time.
And best to pick the shortest time possible so that your FTB is as secure as it can be.
So I'm going to go for one hour and click on.
FTB.
OK now it's time to enter the details.
So first off we've got our FCP server which is F.T. pay docked stacks EPEAT or comp so I'm going to
select that copy and then head back over to file Zella and put that in the host name.
Back then back over to get the user name which is just the domain name there were pastorals test hosting
package.
You're obviously putting in your own web site details not mine.
Here we change the log in type to normal and we place that domain name into the user field.
While I've got it in the Clipboard I'm going to add it here in the site name as well.
So I'll paste that in.
Lovely.
So you can have a collection of different sites and you can quickly choose between them within your
FTB software and then the password.
You don't have to include that.
You might want to type it in every time if someone gets hold of your computer and they're able to log
in and you leave the password here then they will be able to access your files.
That's OK I think while you're developing and just testing out an educational site for a more seriously
secure site you probably want to enter the password each time.
OK.
Then we just click connect.
And as I say I'm going to use save passwords for now.
But you've got a couple of options there.
You might not want to say the password or you won't have a master password which allows you to access
all of the other passwords.
I'll leave that up to you to choose.
Make sure that you see stock C.P. dot com in the certificate and then I'd recommend always trusting
that certificate from now on and then clicking OK.
And if you've entered all the details correctly you should see public HDMI out there and the logging
in successful message at the top there.
So congratulations connected to your site via FGP and the files as we saw in the previous video are
all inside publication.
So I just double clicked on that.
We can spread that out so we can see the full filename.
So at the moment we've only got the index to the HD and L file.
That's why the image here is not displaying correctly.
So let's for a little bit of practice upload our first file.
Fire FTB it's very easy.
We'll take out Earth JPEG file and then I'm going to control click or right click on Windows and upload
and then you can see that has uploaded the DOJ file is now on our server.
And if I go back over and refresh this page for all the lovely Earth image displays.
So we connected to FTB and we've uploaded a file.
Let's just quickly see how we edit files using FTB.
So I'm going to take my index [REMOVED] file control click again and view slash edit
and this takes me to my editor and you can see I've got the code of my Halliwell's page there.
So just a very simple edit that I want to include other worlds in my announcement there so I will just
change that twice and then I use command s to save controls on windows go back over to files Zilah.
And you should see that file has been changed.
Do we want to apply this file back to the server.
Yes that will then.
Op laid out edited version of the file.
And if I go back and refresh you can see that it has taken place.
So it's as simple as that I should offer a small word of warning editing in that way is very fast and
simple but if you have internet connectivity problems you can on occasion get issues if for example
it tries to upload edited version of the file but it can't.
Then occasionally you'll find that the file will be reduced to a file size of 0.
That has happened to me before.
So you do need to be sure that your internet connection is good.
If you're going to be editing this way to be absolutely sure that that's not going to happen.
You can download the file edit it off line then save it and then upload it to just in the same way we
did with the image.
So up to you how you want to do that.
But again when you're learning it's probably best to do things as simply as possible.
So I'd recommend the editing directory method just to get moving as quickly as you can.
All right.
So that's how we set up a Zilah and use it to edit and upload our files in the next couple of videos.
I'm going to show you how to use Firefox and Faya FCP is an alternative FTB client which is the one
I use in future videos.
Sadly this isn't being actively developed anymore.
Which is why I recommend using files illah.
But if you do want to have everything exactly like it is in the videos while you're learning then do
feel free to use Firefox and fire FTB.
Otherwise you can jump over the next two lectures and head straight on to the end of chapter quiz for
HVM.
Good luck.